Q - 4. What is E.F. Codd Rule of RDBMS Systems?
Ans.

E.F. Codd, after his extensive research on the Relational Model of database systems, came up with twelve rules of his own, which according to him, a database must obey in order to be regarded as a true relational database.
This is a foundation rule, which acts as a base for all the other rules.

1. Information Rule: All data should be stored in tables and each row must have a unique identifier.

2. Guaranteed Access Rule: Each data item should be accessible using a combination of table name, primary key, and column name.

3. Systematic Treatment of NULL Values: The DBMS must support the representation of missing and inapplicable information using NULL values without compromising data integrity.

4. Dynamic Online Catalog Based on the Relational Model: The structure (schema) of the database must be stored in a catalog or dictionary, which the DBMS must maintain.

5. Comprehensive Data Sub-language Rule: The DBMS must support a comprehensive language for defining, manipulating, and querying data.

6. View Updating Rule: All views that are theoretically updatable should also be updatable by the system.

7. High-level Insert, Update, and Delete: The system must support high-level insert, update, and delete operations.

8. Physical Data Independence: Changes to the physical storage structures should not require changes to the application's logical view of data.

9. Logical Data Independence: Changes to the logical structure (schema) should not require changes to the application's view of the data.

10. Integrity Independence: Integrity constraints should be stored in the catalog and not dependent on application programs.

11. Distribution Independence: The distribution of portions of the database to various locations should not affect the application.

12. Non-subversion Rule: If the system provides a low-level (record-at-a-time) interface, it must also provide a high-level (set-at-a-time) interface that preserves the integrity rules of the system.